---
ID: 185
post_title: Happy 2018!
post_name: happy-2018
author: Karen Geerts
post_date: 2018-01-03 06:23:10
layout: posts
published: true
tags: [ ]
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
Now that all of the celebrations are out of the way, it's time to check how far I've come crossing off items of that to do list I wrote for myself at the start of the break.
<!--more-->

Been doing pretty well, if I may say so. I did not make the actual updates to the Tic Tac Toe game, instead I built another mini app with sound effects (so I got that out of my system). I also built a hangman game, which I hope to upgrade later. For now it has 4 words that it randomly chooses from, which is not extremely difficult. One approach would be to connect it with an API (I thought about <a href="https://wordnet.princeton.edu/wordnet/frequently-asked-questions/for-application-developer/">Wordnet</a> but that also includes abbreviations, e.g. <a href="http://wordnet-rdf.princeton.edu/search?query=e.g.">e.g.</a>, which is not a very interesting word to guess). Another option would be to theme the game and include the titles of the top 100 movies or books (paintings maybe?). To be continued.

I also spent time looking at videos on Coursera, edX and Codeschool.com. With most of these videos and the associated exercises I don't feel I truly grasp whatever the subject is, but then I remember the <a href="https://www.edutopia.org/blog/using-rule-three-learning-ben-johnson">Rule of Three</a> when learning something new. With these videos I only take Step One, but it's a very important step. Because next time when I need to apply something I've come across in those videos, I'll know how to access in-depth information. And from then on it just becomes practice and all those concepts will be cemented into my brain. No need to worry it now feels a lot like sand and water.

Looking back to 2017, I've come a long way in my coding journey. I've learned the basics in JavaScript, Python and Ruby, and have now added a bit of PHP to the mix. I learned how to use a Mac, am getting quite proficient with the terminal and have staged, committed and pushed thousands of lines of code.

But I think I'm most proud of realising that one of the key strengths of a developer is to break 1 big problem down into lots of small and manageable problems, which is something a) I really enjoy doing and b) not half bad at. It's exactly why I happily spend hours on end coding while the rest of the city is enjoying the cricket / the beach / the barbecue / or whatever tickles their fancy. Although now seems a perfect moment to log off and enjoy that beautiful summer weather.

&nbsp;